Confessions of a Lapsed CatholicWhen I was a senior in high school, my French teacher, a lay person, assigned us Albert Camus’s The Stranger. Madame Parte told us all about existentialism and even through all the philosophical babble I understood that the existentialists thought there was no god. We French students had a silent pact not to mention anything about the book we were reading to other teachers or to our parents. Surely, this heresy would get Madame Parte fired.       	That same year I went to confession for the last time. It was Advent, one of the two times each school year all of the students were herded down to the gymnasium where all the priests from the county parishes sat on folding chairs, one in each locker room, one under each basket, one at mid-court, and one up on the stage, in front of the curtain. Since I auditioned for every play and musical production at the school, I always figured it would be best for me to go to the priest on stage, no matter who it was. A blessing on the stage, could only be good for an actress. I sat in the bleachers with my friends, all of us silent, staring at our socks—we weren’t allowed to wear street shoes on the gym floor—making mental lists of what we would confess. I was trying to keep an eye on the lines at each of the confession stations to make sure I’d be able to go to the one on the stage, but the line just kept getting longer and longer.       	"Hey, who’s on the stage today?"       	Kelly craned her neck a bit to get a better look. "It’s Father Mike."       	I shook my head. "Who’s Father Mike?"       	"See, you never listen to me. You’d better confess that." She smiled as she slugged me in the arm. "He’s the new priest at St. Thomas. He’s really cute. And he plays basketball everyday on the grade school playground in sweats."       	"Sweats?"       	She nodded, her eyebrows raised.       	I got in Father Mike’s line way too late. All the kids wanted to confess to this cool, young priest. All I wanted was to confess on stage. Instead I got sent to the boys’ locker room, to Father Donnelly who had no line at all. I was so thrown off by not being on stage let alone being in the boys’ locker room, that I couldn’t think straight. All I could say was "I don’t listen to my friend Kelly very good when she’s talking about boys."       	"Go on."       	"Um. I can’t think of anything else. Maybe that’s all there is?" I tried to grin.       	He glared at me.       	I thought about making something up, but lying in confession has got to be worse than not even going to confession.       	"What is your name?"       	My heart started pounding. "My name?"       	"Yes, young lady. What is your name?"       	And that’s when my head started pounding. And I could hear my French teacher’s voice saying "Dieu est mort. Dieu est mort!" even though I was pretty sure that she’d never said those actual words or even that it was correct French. I didn’t answer Father Donnelly, I just stood and the next thing I knew I was sitting in the bleachers again, not even pretending to pray. I hadn’t even waited for my penance.       	Months later, I got the role of prostitute in the spring musical. Since it was a Catholic school, though, the role became "party girl" and much of the monologue was changed. In fact, Sister John Elizabeth didn’t even give us the original text, she gave us doctored scripts. We could tell where the lines had been whited out and typed over before being photocopied and distributed. My friends and I went to the public library and looked up the original. We agreed that on the closing night, I would use the original lines and shock all the nuns, priests, parents, and siblings with descriptions of "tricks" and sexual deviation. For weeks, I daydreamed through my classes, imagining the looks on people’s faces, especially Sister John Elizabeth’s and Father Donnelly’s. But fear of expulsion, and so close to graduation, kept me true to Sister’s revision.When I moved to Chicago after college, one of my high school friends got in touch with me. She was directing a play of her own and asked if I would be in it. It was going up at a little underground theater on Clark Street, right by the Belmont el in my neighborhood. Even though it had been years since I’d been on stage, I agreed. The first time I read through the script, I could sense Sister John Elizabeth grasping for White-Out in her grave. My character was having an intense sexual affair with her dentist while her disinterested husband bought rugs from Pier One. She said things like "I like fucking you." She kissed her dentist passionately. And, me? Well, I kissed him passionately in front of the audience. Per the direction of my friend, of course.       	I ended up having a fling with Kurt, the actor who played the part of my character’s lover. We both liked kissing each other, so why not? Besides, it made doing the sex scenes a lot more comfortable. There was the matter of my boyfriend at the time. But really, that relationship had been going downhill for months. Kurt and I liked to joke that I was method acting, at least for a while. Not that my boyfriend ever bought a run from Pier One.The night I finally got up the nerve to come clean with my boyfriend, it was hot and humid—one of those late summer nights when you think I am so ready for winter. I stood on the el platform waiting for the train to take me home, thinking how grateful I was that he hadn’t made any kind of scene, and then wondering why he hadn’t done more than shrug and say okay. All the while, I watched a man across the tracks. He kept pacing back and forth across the platform, and each time he stopped to turn, he looked at me. I tried to avoid his eyes. I looked down the tracks to see if my train was coming. I watched for other people to join me on the dark platform.       	The train going the opposite direction came first. I relaxed when it pulled away and the man was gone, leaving a poster of Chicago’s finest news reporters and their spray-painted mustaches to themselves.       	I tried to fan myself. I moved around the platform unsuccessfully looking for a breezy spot. I sang to myself; I rolled my tank top up to my bra-line trying to cool my belly. I heard footsteps on the stairs and the rumble of a distantly approaching train. My train.       	I took a step back from the edge of the platform and saw, out of the corner of my eye, someone step up near me. It was the man from the other side. My heart thumped hard under my coat. My fingers tingled, and I moved away from him, watching the train approach.       	Holy Mary, Mother of God, protect me, a voice in my head screamed over the wail of the train.       	The man followed each step I made.       	The train pulled up and I waited for the doors to open, for once glad to see most of the seats occupied.       	I felt the weight of his rough hand on my bare shoulder.       	As I turned to face him, he said, "I think you need this."       	I heard the sound of the train’s doors open behind me. He pressed something hard against my chest and I stumbled into the train. It was a book, and I hugged it as I quickly walked to the other end of the car.       	The doors closed and I watched the man, still on the platform, walk down the stairs he had just come up to get to me. As the train pulled away, I looked at the book. It was a Bible.When I got back to my place, Kurt was already there, waiting.       	"What’s that?"       	"Oh." I held up my new book. "It’s the Word of God. Some guy gave it to me at the el."       	"And you took it?"       	I shrugged. "Why not?"       	He shook his head and pulled it from me. With one hand, he threw the book into the corner and with the other pulled open my jeans.A few nights later, on my way from work, the el broke down. I arrived late to rehearsal, hungry for dinner. The director okayed a dinner delivery, but the actor playing my husband wasn’t too happy about it.       	"Jesus Christ. I bust my ass driving in rush hour traffic to get here on time so we can rehearse, ya know, it’d be nice if I could have dinner with my wife and kid, but no, I put out the extra effort to make this show a success and then I get here and this bitch has to eat her God-damned dinner on my time." That’s what he said.       	Kurt, sweet Kurt, came to my rescue. "Chill out, man. We can run the lines in our scenes while she’s eating."       	And later, while he was giving me a post-rehearsal foot massage, Kurt and I debriefed.       	"He’s such a jerk."       	"I know, babe. He doesn’t even have his lines down." He pressed his thumb deep into the arch of my foot. "If he keeps cutting me off, I’m going to cut something off him."       	"Ow." I leaned back on the open futon, stretching. "I’ll hold him down for you."       	"Mm. Like I’m going to hold you down right now?" He rubbed his open palms up my body to my hands, grasping them and pressing them into the futon.I traced Kurt’s jaw line, wiped the sweat from his hairline with my finger. "Can I ask your opinion on something?"       	"What’s that?"       	I sat up and turned on the light.       	"Shit. Do we have to have the light on?" He shielded his eyes for a moment.       	"You know that line I have at the end of the first act? You know And after all, I am just a woman. Alone." I pushed my hair off my face. "How am I supposed to say that? I mean, this is not a woman alone."       	Kurt sat up, too. "Man, it’s foreshadowing. You should say it in a totally pathetic voice. Like Eeyore. Like Glum from Gulliver’s Travels. You know?"       	"Glum?"       	"Yeah, you know. The little guy who was always saying, We’ll never make it."       	"Oh." I reached over to the nightstand and pulled a cigarette from the pack, held it between my fingers. "You don’t think it should be said, like, completely matter-of-fact?"       	Kurt sighed. "You gotta feel it. You have to be that woman alone."       	I lit my cigarette. "I hate that line."The late night rehearsals began to take their toll on me. There were days when I went in to work late. Others, I called in sick. All it got me was extra work on Saturday mornings to catch up. I couldn’t wait for the day when rehearsals ended and my life would return to some semblance of organized existence.       	By the time the show did open, I was suffering from tension headaches everyday. I could feel them all the way into my jaw. I was getting wrinkles above my eyes. My teeth were beginning to hurt from being clenched together all day and from grinding all night. Kurt was the one who gladly noted that manifestation of my stress and then soon after stopped staying the night.       	Don’t misunderstand, our sex life did not suffer any consequences. In fact, Kurt said it got better. That I was putting more energy into it. More passion, he said.       	And then there was opening night. As audience members filled the seats in the small theater, acid filled my stomach. I thought I was going to puke backstage, or just as I walked out into the lights. My head pounded. I was shaking. Kurt rubbed my back. First night jitters, everyone said. They were wrong. It was just as bad if not worse every night we had a performance.       	Then the Cardinal got sick.It was a Friday. We had a show that night and I was supposed to be getting ready to head to the theater. On tv, the man in red stood at a podium explaining that the cancer they had been trying to fight off was no longer responding. That he was preparing himself to meet the Father, his maker. I rolled over on the futon, sprawled out on it, my arms spread wide. I listened to the traffic on the street and wondered how such a little apartment could feel so big.       	Before I left, I prayed for the first time in years. I actually got down on my knees in front of my crucifix. I prayed for the Cardinal. I prayed for the show. And I vowed to start going to church again. Then I picked up the Bible from the corner, brushed the dust off it, and placed it in the center of my table so I would see it every day."You prayed?" Kurt watched me for a moment. "What for?"       	"Oh, just the usual types of things, I guess."       	He drank his coffee and opened his script.       	"Hey, would you maybe go to church with me one Sunday?"       	He laughed and shook his head. "No."       	I lit a cigarette. My last one until after the show that night. "My mother always used to say Once a Catholic, always a Catholic." I tried to laugh and inhaled some nicotine. "Anyway, I think I should. Go to church, I mean. It’s weird; I don’t know. It just seems like something I should do. I guess."       	He studied his script, and I smoked.       	He looked up from his binder. "Do you want to run lines?"We continued on, performing every Friday and Saturday night. Kurt would come over to my place for a romp and then leave to sleep in his own bed. As the weeks went by, our conversations became quieter and quieter. Before the last show, he and I sat in the restaurant next door eating some pre-show snacks. I stared out the window. A cold rain was falling. It would likely turn to snow in the night if it kept up.       	Kurt sat silently eating and watching the waitress.       	"What’s going on?"       	He shrugged.       	"What?"       	"Well," he glanced across his steaming soup at me. "I don’t think I want to see you anymore."       	I set my glass down and looked at him. "Why?"       	He shook his head. "I’d rather not talk about this before the show."       	I pushed my plate toward the middle of the table. "Too late."       	He shrugged. "I just need some time alone."       	I leaned back against the booth bench and crossed my arms, trying to act tough. "No. What is it really?"       	"Can’t we talk about this later?"       	"No."       	He called the waitress over. "Could I please get some water?"       	She nodded.       	"Shit." He turned back to me, shaking his head. "How many times do I have to ask for some damn water?"       	"I’m waiting."       	He threw his head back and looked at the ceiling for a moment. "You really want to know?" He looked back at me.       	I stared into his eyes and nodded.       	He searched for some non-existent thing, rested his elbows on the table and folded his hands under his chin. "It stopped raining."       	"What?" I tugged at the crucifix I’d started wearing around my neck and watched the waitress carry three water glasses in one hand, two plates in the other.       	He shook his head and shrugged.       	I nodded, picked up my costume bag and left. As I stepped out the door, a drop of water fell from the awning, pounding my head, sending a chill down my forehead and into my eye.       	That night I pretended it was the closing show from high school. I swear I could see Sister John Elizabeth standing in the back of the theater shaking her head. But even through the nausea and head throbbing, I faked an orgasm louder than I ever had, on-stage or off.A week later, I heard on the radio that the Cardinal had died. That his body would be laid out for the public to pay their last respects for two days before the private funeral. I still hadn’t made it to Mass. But here was my chance to make up for my transgressions. Forgive me Father for I have sinned; it has been eight years since my last confession.The people on television were all dressed in funeral black, though maybe it was just the darkness of the night. Or maybe Chicagoans just all happened to wear dark winter coats.       	Many cried, wiping their eyes and noses with tattered tissues and handkerchiefs. The cameramen did a good job of focusing in on those that appeared to be the most distraught.       	I stared at the crucifix hanging over my apartment door as I pulled my coat on. Perhaps this was a mistake.       	I had done everything I could to get someone to go with me. Even offered dinner as a bribe. But as the time approached, I had no group together. Not even a partner to stand in line with me. Nobody to debrief with over a cup of coffee at some all-night coffee shop.       	In all truth I was surprised that none of my friends were up for a late night cultural experience such as this. I mean, how often is the body of a dead Cardinal laid out for public view? Sure, it was a week night. Granted, most of the people I asked weren’t Catholic. But come on. It’s the Cardinal.       	I buttoned my coat and sat on the couch watching more footage of the line forming in front of the church and began to wonder, again, if maybe I’d be better off not going. The line was getting so long, and I had plenty of other excuses. It was late. It was dark. And, after all, I was a woman, alone.